hiya i'm elizabeth a medical student and
an artist living in london
and in this video i wanted to go through
my top five podcasts for
medical students the first one has got
to be zero to finals this
podcast is sort of a series of lectures
delivered by this one
doctor his name is thomas watchman and
tom you are absolutely incredible
he has put together any sort of
main medical condition the basic
physiology of it that you need to know
how to treat it according to nice
guidelines and he's made these short
summaries which are like
anywhere from two to twenty minutes for
every single medical topic that you can
think of
if you just go through this podcast
alone it will literally be enough
information to have you pass medical
school it's literally zero to finals it
is incredible
he has a website where he has every
single thing he said on the podcast
written out
he even has a book i bought his book
just to support him i don't use books
i've literally
never opened this i just felt so guilty
consuming his material
and he's put so much work into this that
i thought i have to
um just buy this book the amount of
information that i will retain
from a 50-minute lecture is exactly the
same that he will deliver in a
three-minute podcast it is so so good i
used to listen to these all the time to
fall asleep or if i'm in the bus
or anywhere i'll just you know put his
podcast on it's a great alternative
to reading there's a topic that you're
finding quite challenging to learn um i
would use his podcasts also
another thing that this is really really
good for is kind of structuring your
medical knowledge
i found it so difficult to understand
how things connect to one another
and how topics connect to one another
and you can use this website just to see
which are the cardiology topics that you
need to know for vinyls for example
or you know rheumatology and just using
the headings alone
from his podcast would be valuable let
alone listening to the whole thing
it's absolutely incredible yeah this
guy's amazing
my second podcast is called the recess
room and it's kind of like an emergency
medicine podcast where
there are these emergency medicine
doctors and these paramedics who just
sit together
and talk through different cases or
different new studies that have come out
or
you know different changes of guidelines
or things like that
this is so so funny it's absolutely
brilliant honestly
the banter that they have in this
podcast made kit more
of like an entertainment comedy podcast
than a medical one honestly it's so good
it's very good to listen to the way that
these doctors talk because they kind of
use that medical jargon
and that very adult and professional way
of speaking in medicine which is very
very helpful if you're quite junior like
me
to kind of get used to it and then
perhaps start to try speaking in a
similar way
i particularly appreciate the way that
they approach studies very casually talk
about
how robust these studies are and how
they work and i find this very helpful
to learn for myself
but honestly if you are into emergency
medicine or medicine at all
i would definitely recommend listening
to these guys because the banter is 10
out of 10
and i honestly wish that i was friends
with them they're really really cool
third one is called this podcast will
kill you and it's honestly so so great
it's these two women who sit down
together one of them has kind of a
science background and another one of
them has
a history background and they will take
different conditions for example
toxoplasmosis it will really really
break down these conditions in every
single sense of the word they always
start with a real life case
with what was going on around the time
that this disease was happening
and then they'll explore the historical
background and then they'll get into
deep scientific parts and like how we
cured it or how we investigated it or
how we're trying to cure it
and they just basically explore
everything that has to do
with this disease these girls are so
funny and very very entertaining and
heartwarming to listen to
and the way that they just explore these
medical conditions from so many angles
make it so
so fun they cover such a huge range of
conditions from things that are very
very common to things that are really
really rare
and if otherwise for example i wouldn't
necessarily remember a lot about
toxoplasmosis
the fact that i've heard a one hour
story on it means that there will be
some things that i will just remember
forever
because of the depth in which they
explore these things and how
entertaining they make them
honestly i wish that all our medical
lectures were done this way the next one
is dirk rogan if you've heard one
podcast before it's probably been his
he is like the god of podcasting he's so
well established and
you know he just basically created the
whole genre
of entertainment and although joe does a
lot of
uh interesting things on his podcast a
lot of them
are quite medical i think i've watched
all of his podcasts that interview
scientists if you just google joe rogan
neuroscience joe rogan medicine joe
rogan health
you will see him interview some people
who are so so so incredible
and i think this is the value of
podcasting because these people
that he interviews are just insane
insane
scientists that are in the forefront of
discoveries and are
incredibly incredibly passionate about
health don't necessarily have their own
platforms they're not a lot into social
media which is a whole other
thing to them and the fact that they get
to be interviewed on this podcast
means that he gives them the platform to
share their information
from their mouth not from you know
random journalists skewing this
the results of their studies the thing
that i love about podcasts with joe
rogan
is that because he is not a scientist
himself
no matter how passionate and in-depth
his
interviewees go into what they're
talking about they always come back to
this baseline level of
what joe rogan can understand which is a
level that most of us would be able to
understand too
so i find this incredibly helpful um
it's so easy for me to recommend his
podcast to other people this way i've
discovered some very very incredible
uh scientists and that will lead me onto
my fifth and last podcast recommendation
which is rhonda patrick i absolutely
love this woman
she is so incredible she single-handedly
got me into
analyzing my dna and kind of adjusting
the way that i live or eat or exercise
to my genome which is really really
mind-blowing she's honestly in the
forefront of the discoveries of fighting
against aging
and lifestyle medicine and she's just
such
an inspiring and amazing woman the
things that she does and the way that
she
portrays things are very very in-depth
and very high-level medicine so you do
need to be scientifically literate to
understand what she's saying sometimes i
honestly struggle
with dimensions of all the enzymes and
all the biochemical pathways
i still find a lot of value in the
things that she says but strongly
strongly recommend her podcast they
literally after i'm done listening to
them they put me in such a headspace to
want to
eat healthier and exercise more and kind
of be more aware
of how i treat my body and how i plan my
lifestyle and future
she is so so inspiring in that way so
yes those are my top five medical
podcasts a few of these are also my top
favorite podcasts of all time
um although some of them are not even
though i've been listening to them for
so long whenever i hear a good podcast i
feel like oh my god i cannot believe
that i am being let in on this
conversation this is absolutely insane
this is such good information at some
point in the future i might include
some podcasts on like broader topics
apart from medicine
but if you're a medical student or if
you hope to be a medical student i hope
that the ones that i mentioned today
can kind of give you both that
inspiration to follow the medical path
but also some information that will
hopefully be
valuable for your training and studying
as always if you made it so far
thank you so so much for spending this
time with me i hope you have a wonderful
rest of your day
kind to yourself and others and don't
believe everything you think thanks
bye